--- Page 1 ---
 
1 
 
Jurnal Pendidikan:  
Teori, Penelitian, dan Pengembangan 
Volume:  Number: Month-Year 
Page:…..-….. 
Available online  
http://journal.um.ac.id/index.php/jptpp/ 
EISSN: 2502-471X 
DOAJ-SHERPA/RoMEO-Google Scholar-IPI 
Article Title 
1First Author, 2Second Author 
1First affiliation, Address, City and Postcode, Country 
2Second affiliation, Address, City and Postcode, Country 
 
ARTICLE INFO  ABSTRACT 
Article history: 
Accepted: Date Month Year 
Approved: Date Month Year 
 
 The abstract should be clear, concise, and descriptive. This abstract should provide a brief 
introduction to the problem, objective of paper, followed by a statement regarding the 
methodology and a brief summary of results. The abstract should end with a comment on 
the significance of the results or a brief conclusion. Please write abstract max 250 words 
Keywords: 
Keyword1 
Keyword2 
Keyword3 
Author Correspondence: 
Author,  
Department  
University 
Address 
E-mail: author@author.com  
INTRODUCTION  
The Introduction ought to give readers with the background data required to know your study, and the reasons why you 
conducted your experiments. The Introduction ought to answer the question: what question/problem was studied? Please don’t 
write a literature review in your Introduction, however, do cite reviews wherever readers will realize a lot of data if they need it. 
Whereas writing the background, make certain your citations are relevant, well balanced, and current (not older than ten years). 
Once you have got provided background material and expressed the matter or question for your study, tell the reader the aim o f 
your study. Typically, the expl anation is to fill a niche within the information or to answer an antecedent unrequited question. 
The ultimate factor to incorporate at the top of your Introduction could be a clear and precise statement of your study aims. 
METHOD 
Contains the type of research, time and place of research, targets, research subjects, procedures, instruments and data 
analysis techniques as well as other matters related to the research method which can be written in sub -sections, with sub-sub-
headings. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure  1. Design of ADDIE model 
--- Page 2 ---
2    Jurnal Pendidikan: Teori, Penelitian, dan Pengembangan, Vol..., No..., Month Year, Page....-.... 
RESULTS 
The results obtained from this development research are in the form of an articulate storyline -based learning multimedia 
product used to support the learning process on the Material of Temperature and Heat for Class VII Junior High School. The 
stages in development research include seeing potential problems, collecting data, product design stages, product validation,  
product revision, and product testing. The model used in this development research is ADDIE: analysis, des ign, development, 
implementation, and evaluation. The results showed that the learning multimedia developed was feasible to be used in the learning 
process. This is based on the validity, effectiveness, and practicality of learning multimedia based on articulate storylines. Based 
on the results of the validation obtained, the level of validity of learning multimedia is 0.78 with a valid category. Where the 
aspects that are assessed are aspects of the construct and aspects of content, the validation data can be seen in Table 1. 
 
Table 1. The results of the validation of learning multimedia based on the articulate Storyline 
No Aspects of assessment Aikens (V) Category 
1 Construct aspect 0,77 Valid 
2 Content aspect 0,79 Valid 
3 Average 0,78 Valid 
 
DISCUSSION 
Developing learning multimedia based on an articulate storyline on Temperature and Heat material has passed the 
development stage using the ADDIE model, which includes the Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, and Evaluation 
stages. At the analysis stage, an initial analysis is carried out to determine the potential problems, the needs of students, and 
curriculum analysis. The second stage is the design stage, where at this stage, the design of learning multimedia designs is carried 
out, which will be developed in the form of storyboards and flowcharts. Furthermore, at the multimedia development stage, which 
has been completed, it is designed, validated by experts, and implemented. But before that, the multimedia will be revised 
according to the validator's suggestions and comments. A limited trial was conducted at the implementation stage using a one -
group pretest-posttest research design. The last stage is the evaluation stage. Where at this stage, a formative and summative 
evaluation is carried out. Formative evaluation is carried out at each stage of development due to the need for revision. While the 
summative evaluation is carried out at the last stage, which aims to assess the feasibility of the multimedia developed at th e 
implementation stage. 
CONCLUSION AND SUGGESTION  
Based on the results of the research obtained process of developing learning multimedia based on articulate storylines was 
created using the ADDIE development model (Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, and Evaluation), which includes 
several stages, namely analyzing potential and problems, making multimedia designs, make multimedia according to the design, 
implement multimedia and the last is to evaluate to revise multimedia at every stage of its manufacture. Articulate storyline-based 
learning multimedia is said to be feasible with a level of validity of 0.78 with a valid category, the level of effectiveness obtained 
from the n-gain test of 0.56 with a medium category, and the level of practicality of multimedia obtained from the results of the 
questionnaire response of teachers by 90% and participants students by 86.87% in the very good category. 
Based on the limitations of the research, there are several suggestions shown for the improvement of development research 
at a further stage, including learning multimedia based on articulate storylines on Temperatu re and Heat material that has been 
developed, which will be more interesting if it can be developed into complete multimedia, be it animation, simulation, video and 
the addition of multimedia background. Articulate storyline -based learning multimedia can b e further formed on other physics 
materials. Extensive trials can be carried out for further developers at the implementation stage. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
The author would like to thank the Department of Physics Education for the support provided so that the stud y can be 
completed on time. 
REFERENCES 
Agustin.,  & Zuhdi, U. (2021) Pengembangan Media Pembelajaran Interaktif Menggunakan Articulate Storyline 3 Pada Materi 
Sifat Dan Perubahan Wujud Benda Untuk Meningkatkan Hasil Belajar Siswa Kelas V SD. Jurnal Penelitian Pendidikan 
Guru Sekolah Dasar, 9(8), 1-9. 
 
